.TH PLOC 1 "May 2026" "ploc 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ploc \- count lines of code and language usage in the current directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ploc
completions
[\fBbash\fR|\fBzsh\fR|\fBfish\fR]
.PP
.B ploc
[\fB\-\-include\-noise\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-color\fR]
[\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ploc
prints a compact summary of source lines, counted files, and detected
languages for exactly the current working directory.
.PP
Unlike project-root discovery tools,
.B ploc
does not walk upward to find a Git repository, package manifest, or workspace
root. It scans the directory where it is invoked.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-include\-noise
Include dependency, build, VCS, cache, and generated-output directories that
are skipped by default.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI color in the output.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print command help.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the installed version.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B completions bash
Print bash completions to stdout.
.TP
.B completions zsh
Print zsh completions to stdout.
.TP
.B completions fish
Print fish completions to stdout.
.SH DEFAULT EXCLUSIONS
By default,
.B ploc
skips common noisy directories such as
.BR .git ,
.BR node_modules ,
.BR target ,
.BR dist ,
.BR build ,
and cache directories.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Scan the current directory:
.B ploc
.TP
Scan the current directory without ANSI color:
.B ploc --no-color
.TP
Include build and dependency directories:
.B ploc --include-noise
.TP
Generate zsh completions:
.B ploc completions zsh > ~/.local/share/zsh/site-functions/_ploc
.SH AUTHOR
Or Kwitzel
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
